When you look at some of the other computer languages, you will notice that
there are a lot of curly brackets used to arrange the different blocks of code or
to begin and end the statements. This helps you to remember to indent the code
blocks in these languages to make the code easier to read, although the
computer will be able to read the different codes without the indentations just
fine.
This type of coding can make it really difficult to read. You will see a lot of
unnecessary information that is required for the computer to read the code, but
can make it hard on the human eye to read this. Python uses a different way of
doing this, mostly to help make it easier on the human eye to read what you
have. You are going to need to ident the code for this to work. An example of
This type of coding can make it really difficult to read. You will see a lot of
unnecessary information that is required for the computer to read the code, but
can make it hard on the human eye to read this. Python uses a different way of
doing this, mostly to help make it easier on the human eye to read what you
have.
Most computer languages will treat uppercase and lowercase letters the same,
but Python is one of the only ones that will be case sensitive. This means that
the lower case and upper case letters will be treated differently in the system.
Keep in mind as well that all the reserved words will use lower case except for
None, False, and true.
These basics are going to make it easier to get started on the Python
programming. You need to take a bit of time to go through the program in order
to get familiar with it. You aren’t going to need to become an expert, but getting
familiar with some of the text interpreter and some of the other parts of the
program can make it easier to use and you can learn how the different buttons
will work even before you get started. Try out a few of the examples above
first to help you get started.
Python works to keep things as basic as possible because it understands that
most of its users are going to be beginners or those who are tired of other
complex languages. As you can see here, and in the following chapters, there
are simple commands that you will be able to put forward in order to get the
program to work a specific way. Study these and you can make a great program
without quite as much work.
There are a lot of things that you can do in Python. It is one of the most
interactive options that you will run into when getting started in programming
and since it is so easy to use. In this chapter, we will take some time to discuss
more about comments and some of the other aspects of Python so you are able
to get started and make your codes amazing in no time.
This would tell the computer to just print “Hi, how are you?” All comments are
ignored in the Python interpreter because it is more of a footnote in the program
to help the programmer, or others who may use the code, special things about
the code. They are basically there to say what the program is supposed to do
and how it will work. It is a bit more detailed and can be helpful without getting
in the way of how the code works.
You will not need to leave a comment on every line, just when it is needed. If
the programmer feels that something needs explained better, they would put in a
comment but don’t expect to see it all over the place. Python doesn’t support
any comments that will go across several lines so if you have a longer
comment in the program, figure out how to split it up into different lines with
the # sign in front of each part.
Some programs are going to show the text you want on the screen, or they can
request certain information. You may want to start out the program code by
telling the reader what your program is all about. Giving it a name or a title can
make things easier so the other coder knows what is in the program and can
pick the right one for them.
The best way to get the right information to show up is show a string literal that
will include the “print” function. For those who don’t know, string literals are
basically lines of text that will be surrounded by some quotes, either a single or
double quote. The type of quote that you use isn’t going to matter that much,
but if you use one type in the beginning of the phrase, you should use it at the
end. So if there are double quotes at the beginning of your phrase, make sure
that you keep up with the double quotes at the end as well.
When you want the computer to display a word or phrase on the screen, you
would simply have “print” and then the phrase after it. For example, if you
want to portray “Welcome!” you would do

Now this may look like a simple equation, but there is quite a bit that is going
on in the string above that you should watch out for. In the spot with you
opened up the myfile.txt to write on and then assigned it to the variable called
myfile. Then in the second part, you wrote in Hello! To the file as a new line
and then the w told the program that you will only be able to write the changes
when the file is open.
Of course, you don’t have to use the print function to get it to do the work that
you want. The write method will often work well too. For example, you can
replace the print with write like the example below to get the same things.
Your computer is capable of processing a lot of information including numbers
and characters. The types of information that the Python program will use are
known as types and the language will contain many different types to help
make things easier. Some of these include string, integers, and floating point
numbers. Programmers can even define these different types using classes.
Types will consist of two separate parts. The first part is a domain that will
contain a possible set of values and the second part is a set that contains the
possible operations. Both of these can be performed on any value. An example
of this is that if you have a domain that is a type of integer, it can only contain
integers inside it including addition, division, multiplication, and subtraction.
One thing to note with this is that Python is a dynamically typed program. This
means that there really isn’t a need to specify the types for the variables when
you create it. The same variables can be used to store the values of different
types. Despite this, Python still needs you to have all the variables with a
definitive type. For example, if the programmer tried to add in a number to a
string, the Python program would recognize this and show an error. It won’t try
to figure out what you wanted; rather it will just exit without trying
While a string may seem like something complicated, in Python they are
basically a sequence of characters. They are going to work the same way as a
list does, but they will contain a bit more functionality that is specific to the
text.
Formatting strings can be a challenge when it comes to writing out your out
your code. There are some messages that aren’t going to be fixed string and
sometimes there are values that are stored inside variables inside it. There is a
way to get this to work right for string formatting. An example of this is:
We have spent a bit of time talking about both single and double quotes, but
there are times when you may need to bring in the triple quote. This is used
when you need to define a literal that will span many lines or one that already
has a lot of quotes in it. To do this, just use a single and double together or
three singles. The same rule applies with the triple quote as with all the others.
You will need to star and end the phrase with the same one.
String Operations
One of the string operations that you may use a lot is a concatenation. This is
used in order to join a pair of strings together and you will notice it is there
with the + symbol. There are a lot of functions that Python is able to help you
with and they will work with the strings to create a variety of operations. They
are going to have some useful options that can do a lot more in the Pythons
program
In Python program, strings are called immutable. This means that once you
create the string, it is not capable of being changed. You may have to assign a
new valuable to a specific variable that exists if you are looking to make some
changes.
There is so much that you are able to learn about when it comes to getting
started with Python. It may be a simple language, but you want to be able to
learn how it works, how to write things down properly, and even how to leave a
comment for others to understand when they are looking through the code. It
may seem a bit intimidating in the beginning, but before too long, and with
some practice, you will get it down and be writing your own code in no time.
The next thing that we are going to discuss are variables. Variables are
basically the labels that will denote where in your computers memory
something is going to be stored and they can also hold values. When it comes
to programming that is typed with statistics, the variables will each have a
value that is predetermined and each variable is only going to hold the value of
that type. Python has made it a bit easier because you can use one of your
variables in order to store different types.
Think about your calculator for this one. The variable is going to be like the
memory function in this calculator. It will hold onto a value so that you can
retrieve it any time that you want, but when you store in a newer value, the
older one will be erased. The only difference is that you will be able to have a
large number of variables and each of them will have different values, each of
them being referred by their own name.
With Python you will be able to define a variable by giving the label a value.
For example, you can name a variable count and have it an integer value of
one. You would show this by simply writing
count = 1
Note that with this syntax, you can assign a value to the variable with the same
name. If you try to access values in a variable that hasn’t been defined, the
Python interpreter won’t read through this. It will just exit out of the program
and give you an error.
You can choose to define a few different variables in one line, but this is not
the best practice for you to use. For example, you could do this
You won’t be able to access every variable from all parts of the program and
not every variable will be the same length. The way that you defined the
variable is going to determine where and how long you will be able to access
this variable. The section of your program where you can access the variable is
going to be known as the “scope” and the time that the variable will be
available is known as the “lifetime”.
Global variables are those that are defined within the main file body and you
will be able to see these variables throughout the entire file as well as inside a
file that will be able to import the specific file. These variables have far
reaching effects and because of this, you may notice some consequences that
you didn’t notice. This is why most people won’t use global variables, or they
will use them sparingly. You should only add stuff into the global namespace if
you plan to use them globally, like with functions or classes.
On the other hand, if you define a variable inside of another variable, it will be
called a local variable. This one has the ability to be accessed from where it is
defined and will only exist when that function executes. These are only going to
be available in certain areas of the program and can’t be found or used
elsewhere.
The assignment operator
We have discussed this option a bit throughout the book, but haven’t really
given it a name. The assignment operator is the equals sign or the (=). It is
going to be used in programming to assign the value to the right of the
statement to the variable that is located t the left. Sometimes the variable will
be created first. In cases where the value on the right is from an expression,
such as an arithmetic expression, the evaluation will take place before this
assignment happens.
Keep in mind that the (=) is not going to be a mathematical sign in
programming. You can add things to the number and make all sorts of changes
that wouldn’t make sense if you thought of this sign as a mathematical one.
Rather it is an assignment operator so that the statement will be turned into the
part on the right.
When you assign the first value to this variable, you are going through the
process of initializing. The definition of a value assignment and variable are
carried out in the single step in this programming, although it is sometimes done
in two steps with some of the other programming languages. But since it is
done in one step, it is less likely that the user will make a mistake or receive an
error in the process.
In some programming languages, you will be able to define a special variable
that has a value that has been set. This means that the value can’t be changed.
These are called constants in the programming language. For the most part,
Python is not going to allow for these kinds of restrictions, but there is a
convention that is used to help ensure that some variables are marked to
indicate that the values aren’t supposed to be changed. To show this, the names
will be written in CAPITAL letters with underscores between each word. An
example of a variable that is a constants include:
Of course, there are no rules to say you have to put the right number at the end.
You could say there are 8 days in a week if you want because the Python
program won’t be keeping track, but it is best to just keep it accurate in case
other coders would like to use it.
These can be really helpful to you in your string. Sometimes in the program,
for example, you will want to change the maximum of a number that is allowed
in the program. This may work fine for a bit, but maybe later on you need to
increase or decrease this number. Without setting up a constants, you are going
to have to go through and make quite a few changes to get everything matched
up. But with a good constants in order, you can just go back to one place and
get it all fixed up.
Understanding how the strings work in your program can make a big difference
in the success that you see with this program. You need to learn where they are
stored, what the rules are that govern each of them, and how to make them
work in a specific part of the program. With a bit of practice, and using the
guidelines above, you will get this down in no tie and can be an expert too!
Learning how to get started with computer programing can seem like a big
challenge. There are many different programming options that you can go with,
but many of them are hard to learn, will take some time to figure out, and won’t
always do all of the stuff that you need. Many people fear that they need to be
really smart or have a lot of education and experience in coding before they are
able to make it to the coding level they want. But with Python, even a beginner
can get into programming.
Python has made it so easy to get started with coding whether you are a
beginner or have been in this business for some time. The language is based in
English so it is easy to read and it has gotten rid of a lot of the other symbols
that make coding hard to read for others. And since it is user domain, anyone
can make changes and see other codes to make things easier.
This guidebook has spent some time talking about the different functions that
you can do in Python and how easy it is for a beginner to get started. You will
find that this process is easy and you can learn it with a little bit of practice. It
is easy to use, works across a lot of platforms, and even the newer Mac
systems come with this already downloaded.
When you are ready to get started on programming, or you want to find a
program that is going to do a lot of great things without all the hassle, make
sure to check out Python.